1.	Display the Name and Title of the Employee who do not have a manager.
		select ename,title from emp where (select emp <> 'manager');

2.	The sales department is simplifying the pricing policy for all products. The new base price is increasing bythe 	lesser of 0.5 %. Analyze the difference in the two prices.
	
3.	Display the employee details who have joined on the same day when KING has joined.
		select * from emp where hiredate = (select hiredate from emp where ename='KING');

4.	Find out the difference between maximum salary and salary earned by employee in deptno 10.
		select sal from emp where max(sal) - (select sal from emp where deptno = (select deptno from dept where      		deptno =10));

5.	Find out the difference in Rs. Between average earning of dept 20 and 30.

6.	Display name, salary, and comm. For employee whose comm. > 5% of salary.
		select ename,sal,comm from emp where comm > (select sal from emp where sal = sal*0.5);

7.	Find out the employees whose salary is less than the average salary for dept 20.
		select ename, job, sal, deptno from emp where sal >= (select avg(sal) from emp where deptno=20);

8.	Display information of employee who has no people reporting to them.

9.	Display information of employees who is having maximum number of people reporting to them.

10.	Give a query to concatenate empno, ename and mgr with spaces between.

11.	List the employee who is hired the earliest and least.
		select * from emp where hiredate = (select max(hiredate) or min(hiredate));

12.	What length of longest ename and by how many characters is it long than its nearest one?

13.	Which employees earn less than 30% of president s salary?

14.	List the department spending highest on salary.
	
15.	List the department having least number of staff.
        	select job, count(*) from emp group by job having count(*) = (select count(*) from emp group by job order by 		1 limit 1);

16.	List the department having neither the highest not the lowest of avg salary.
		select ename, job, sal, deptno from emp where sal >= (select avg(sal) from emp);

17.	Display details of all employees as Mr. Ford works under <manger name>.

18.	Display employee information who have joined the organization before 'BLAKE'

19.	Display employee information that has joined the organization before their subordinates.

20.	List the employee (s) who earns the highest.
		select ename,max(sal) from emp where sal < (select max(sal) from emp);

21.	List the mgr in dept 10 along with their dept details as well manager refers to anyone to whom at least 1 person 		reports.
22.	In which year did the most people join the organization? Display the year and the number of employees.

23.	List number, name, job, manager number and manager’s job of each employee reporting to them

24.	Display information about employees who have the maximum number of employees reporting to him

25.	Display the details of all employees who report to BLAKE

26.	Display the department no of all departments having more than 1 clerks

27.	Which employees earn less than 30% of the president’s salary?
		select ename, empid,hiredate from emp where sal<(select sal from emp where sal = sal *0.3);

28.	Display all employee names and the locations of their departments except ‘CHICAGO’

29.	Display department that has no employees

30.	Display the products purchased by JOCK SPORTS which are not purchased by JUST TENNIS

31.	Write a query to find out the employees who are first to join their departments 

32.	Create a query to display the name, hiredate, and salary for all employees who have both the same salary and 	commission as Scott.

33.	List all the employees who have at least one person reporting to them.

34.	List the name of the employees with their immediate higher authority.

35.	List all the employees who do not manage any one.

36.	Write a query to display a ‘*’ against the row of the most recently hired employee.

37.	Write a correlated sub-query to list out the employees who earn more than the average salary of their department.

38.	Find the 2nd maximum salary.
		select max(sal) from emp where sal < (select max(sal) from emp where sal < (select max(sal) from emp));

39.	Select the duplicate records (Records, which are inserted, that already exist) in the EMP table.

40.	List the Employees in Deptno 10 other than King.
		select ename, job, hiredate, sal, deptno from emp where deptno =(select deptno from dept where deptno = 10 		and ename<>'KING');
		
